---
published: false
---

## Developing A.D.D 
    One of the highest hurdles I faced as a new programmer/developer was Developer A.D.D. What is that you ask? Basically the perfect storm of the ever evolving development tools, mixed with new experts born seemingly every day. When I first started I wanted to learn Java so I could program Android apps, but that was hard and you had to know XML, and getting the SDK setup on my machine was like pulling your own teeth.
    
    Then I went to a hackathon and was sold on HTML and CSS because hey you can always use PhoneGap right? Learning HTML and CSS wasn't too bad and I could see immediate results, but after that is was trying to figure out a backend and doing searches for problems that arise in what you chose turns up articles like "Rails is Dead", PHP is for the uncouth, Node.js is the end all, and more recently Meteor.js is killing dinosaurs.
    
    I certainly appreciate the imagery, but as a beginner it seemed to throw me from one camp to the next like a language groupie with no standards. So what's the takeaway? Learn to adapt, but try and stick with something no matter how often someone tells you that your current language is the next Fortran, it's not. Furthermore learning the language fully whatever you choose will certainly make it easier to adapt later on if need be. So, if I had to do it all over again here is what I would do: 
    
- Learn HTML && CSS
- build cool stuff pick up some photo editing skills
- Learn Javascript/Jquery: Spice up your projects.
- Pick a language or a framework and build awesome stuff.
- ignore haters and fanboys.
- build more awesome stuff and try to gain practical skills like
- Don't be afraid to be lazy use a template, see how the professionals do it. 
- Ask questions, don't get lost in problems for too long, or you will quit. 
Well, that is my by no means comprehensive list of lessons learned of development feel free to email me or comment any mistakes or accolades. 



Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.